engineering: methodology update (#311)
src-d/guide: engineering/methodology.md

# Engineering methodology

Date: 2018-11-29

* [Intro](#intro)
* [OKRs](#okrs)
* [Backlog and Features-Idea repositories](#backlog-and-features-idea-repositories)
* [Leads Meeting](#leads-meeting)
* [Team Sync Meeting](#team-sync-meeting)
* [Standup](#standup)
* [Demo](#demo)
* [Retrospective Meeting](#retrospective-Meeting)

## Intro

> This methodology's an evolution of [previous workflows](https://github.com/src-d/guide/blob/abe7932e3bc58898e49a5c1c0e3e2cac6d387144/engineering/methodology.md) and experiences, and it's on constant evolution an open to change at any moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This methodology's an evolution of [previous workflows](https://github.com/src-d/guide/blob/abe7932e3bc58898e49a5c1c0e3e2cac6d387144/engineering/methodology.md) and experiences, and it's on constant evolution and open to change at any moment.
```

> The current workflow is based on this main concepts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current workflow is based on these main concepts:
```

> * OKRs, company/team engineering OKRs are what should drive every single decision taken by the Engineering Team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* OKRs: company/team engineering OKRs are what should drive every single decision taken by the Engineering Team.
```

> * A [Workflow](workflow.md), that defines the process of definition and development of the tasks, from the idea to the release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A [Workflow](workflow.md) that defines the process of definition and development of the tasks, from the idea to the release.
```

> * A Backlog and Features-Idea repositories, where the approved tasks and the suggestions are.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Backlog](https://github.com/src-d/backlog) and [Features-Idea](https://github.com/src-d/feature-idea/) repositories, where the approved tasks and the suggestions are.
```

> * A Backlog and Features-Idea repositories, where the approved tasks and the suggestions are.

Reviewer: > approved tasks and the suggestions are.

Unfinished sentence

Reviewer 3: It's complete. But maybe "…where the approved tasks and suggestions are stored." would avert the confusion?

> * Leads meeting, a meeting to align all efforts done by the different teams at engineering.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Leads meeting to align all efforts done by the different teams at engineering every week.
```

Author: The periodicity is removed intentionally from the guides.

> * Demo, a company-wide presentation where all the new functionality and important changes are communicated to the company once they are done.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Engineering Demo: a company-wide presentation where all the new functionality and important changes are communicated to the company once they are done.
```

Author: It not only Engineering anymore since we have Product

> * Retrospective Meeting, a place to improve the methodology.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Retrospective Meeting: a place to improve the methodology.
```

## OKRs

Every single decision made at the Engineering Team (and company-wide as well),

> should be made aligned with the quartes OKRs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should be made aligned with the quarter's OKRs.
```

The company publishes OKRs every quarter at [OKRs](https://github.com/src-d/okrs)
the OKRs for the current quarter are hosted in the README.md file, the pasts

> quartes can be found by his name in the same repository.

Reviewer 4: s/pasts quartes/past quarters/

Reviewer 4: s/by his name/by their name/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
quarters can be found by their name in the same repository.
```

The OKRs are introduced and discussed via PRs to a feature branch and

> merged once are reviewed by management.

Reviewer 4: s/once are/once they are/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
merged once they are reviewed by management.
```

> The Management Team defines the company OKRs and the high lever OKRs,  meanwhile

Reviewer 4: s/lever/level/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Management Team defines the company OKRs and the high level OKRs,  meanwhile
```

> the CTO and the Head of determining the Engineering Team OKRs

Reviewer 2: Weird wording here, I think the order of words is fubared.

> the CTO and the Head of determining the Engineering Team OKRs

Reviewer 5: the Head of determining the Engineering Team OKRs Architecture? 🤔

> the CTO and the Head of determining the Engineering Team OKRs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the CTO and the Head of Engineering determine the Engineering Team OKRs.
```

Architecture, with the help of the rest of the members of the team.

> The OKRs per team are defined and published by the Lead of each team, aligned

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Per-team OKRs are defined and published by the Lead of each team, aligned
```

with the company ones.

## Backlog and Features-Idea repositories

> At source{d} we try to use git repositories as much, that's why our source

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
At source{d} we try to use git repositories as much as possible, that's why our source
```

> At source{d} we try to use git repositories as much, that's why our source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At source{d} we try to use git repositories as much as possible, that's why our source
```

> of true for the user histories and tasks are git repositories at GitHub, even

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
of truth for the user histories and tasks are git repositories on GitHub.
```

> of true for the user histories and tasks are git repositories at GitHub, even

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of truth for the user stories and tasks are git repositories at GitHub, even
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of truth for the user stories and tasks are git repositories on GitHub, even
though those repositories don't contain any code.
```

> these repositories don't contain any code.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Those repositories don't contain any code.
```

> these repositories don't contain any code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if these repositories don't contain any code.
```

> The [Fetures-Idea repository](https://github.com/src-d/feature-idea) is the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The [Features-Idea repository](https://github.com/src-d/feature-idea) is the
```

Reviewer 3: nit: Feature-Idea

> the place where everyone in the company can suggest new features, projects or

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
place where everyone in the company can suggest new features, projects or
```

> products to the Product Team/Engineering Team, this is doing creating an [issue](https://github.com/src-d/feature-idea/issues/new/choose) in the repository,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
products to the Product Team/Engineering Team, this is done by creating an [issue](https://github.com/src-d/feature-idea/issues/new/choose) in the repository,
```

> products to the Product Team/Engineering Team, this is doing creating an [issue](https://github.com/src-d/feature-idea/issues/new/choose) in the repository,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
products to the Product Team/Engineering Team. Suggestions are submitted by creating an [issue](https://github.com/src-d/feature-idea/issues/new/choose) in that repository,
```

> after the Product Team and CTO will review this at the Product Sync meeting that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then the Product Team and CTO will review this at the Product Sync meeting that
```

happens once per week.

The [Backlog repository](https://github.com/src-d/backlog) contains the full
backlog for the Engineering Team and Product Team; these issues are managed by

> the Head of Product and only him can create new issues there. Each issue at this repository represents an EPIC, and this EPIC should be linked to his Design

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
the Head of Product and only he can create new issues there. Each issue in this repository represents an EPIC, and that EPIC should be linked to it's Design
```

Reviewer 3: nit: …only they can…

(to remove gender specificity from the term)

Reviewer 3: nit: …linked to its Design

(it's = it + is, its = it-possessive)

> the Head of Product and only him can create new issues there. Each issue at this repository represents an EPIC, and this EPIC should be linked to his Design

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Head of Product and only him can create new issues there. Each issue at this repository represents an EPIC, and this EPIC should be linked to its Design
```

> Document and his OKR. Every team involved in the development of this EPIC is

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Document and his OKR. Every team involved in the development of that EPIC is
```

> Document and his OKR. Every team involved in the development of this EPIC is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Document and its OKR. Every team involved in the development of this EPIC is
```

responsible for keeping it updated.

...

## Leads Meeting

> It's a weekly event, were all the Lead Engineers and Product meets to discuss

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's a weekly event, where all Lead Engineers and Product meets to discuss
```

> It's a weekly event, were all the Lead Engineers and Product meets to discuss

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
It's a weekly event, were all the Lead Engineers and Product meet to discuss
```

> the current problems, and future developments were are relevant for the other

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
the current problems, and future developments which are relevant to the other
```

> the current problems, and future developments were are relevant for the other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the current problems, and future developments that are relevant for the other
```

teams:

> * Tasks were the cooperation of other teams are required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Tasks where cooperation of other teams is required.
```

> * Tasks were the cooperation of other teams are required.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Tasks where the cooperation of other teams is required.
```

> * Changes on the project's boundaries affecting other teams.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Changes in the project's boundaries affecting other teams.
```

> * Relevant question regardless of other teams projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Relevant question regardless of other teams' projects.
```

> * Relevant question regardless of other teams projects.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Relevant questions regardless of other teams' projects.
```

> Also, at the end of the meeting, the new design documents are presented

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Also, in the end of the meeting, the new design documents are presented
```

with a brief explanation and the maintainer is chosen.

## Team Sync Meeting

> A Bi-weekly/weekly meeting of the CTO with the team lead and optionally with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A bi-weekly/weekly meeting of the CTO with the team lead and optionally with the
```

> A Bi-weekly/weekly meeting of the CTO with the team lead and optionally with the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A bi-weekly/weekly meeting between the CTO and the team lead and optionally with the
```

> full team (to be decided by the lead), in order to comment on the status of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
full team (to be decided by the lead), in order to comment on the status of the team's
```

projects.

> At this meeting, the new tasks are added to the team backlog and the current

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At this meeting, new tasks are added to the team backlog and the current
```

# Engineering methodology

Date: 2018-11-29

* [Intro](#intro)
* [OKRs](#okrs)
* [Backlog and Features-Idea repositories](#backlog-and-features-idea-repositories)
* [Leads Meeting](#leads-meeting)
* [Team Sync Meeting](#team-sync-meeting)
* [Standup](#standup)
* [Demo](#demo)

> * [Retrospective Meeting](#retrospective-Meeting)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Retrospective Meeting](#retrospective-meeting)
```

* Retrospective Meeting: a place to improve the methodology.

## OKRs

Every single decision made in the Engineering Team (and company-wide as well),
should be made aligned with the quarter's OKRs.

The company publishes OKRs every quarter at [OKRs](https://github.com/src-d/okrs).
The OKRs for the current quarter are hosted in the README.md file, the past
quarters can be found by their name in the same repository.

The OKRs are introduced and discussed via PRs to a feature branch and
merged once they are reviewed by management.

The Management Team defines the company OKRs and the high level OKRs,  meanwhile
the CTO and the Head of Architecture determine the Engineering Team OKRs
with the help of the rest of the members of the team.

Per-team OKRs are defined and published by the Lead of each team, aligned
with the company ones.

## Backlog and Features-Idea repositories

At source{d} we try to use git repositories as much as possible, that's why our source
of truth for the user stories and tasks are git repositories on GitHub, even
though those repositories don't contain any code.

> if these repositories don't contain any code.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

Demo meeting is a monthly event.

* Idea: let everybody know what's going on (on quite a technical level) that is relevant for others or affects others’ releases/deployments.
* Product does not need to be deployed, but the demo should be as real as possible.
* Should be concise, respecting other people's time.
* Fixed max time **per-team: 15min (including questions)**. Agree between teams in advance, if more time needed.

## Retrospective Meeting

> Every month this methodology is reviewed in a meeting called Retrospective Meeting

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Every month this methodology is reviewed on a meeting called Retrospective Meeting
```

Reviewer 3: "in" was right.

> Every month this methodology is reviewed in a meeting called Retrospective Meeting

Reviewer 2: I think we need to clarify a few things:

- Who attends the engineering retrospective? (CTO, HoA, Team Leads or anyone delegated by Team Leads?)
- Are there per-team retrospectives too? When? Is it fixed schedule or Team Leads schedule them whenever they consider it?

> this born from the Scrum methodology:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
which is inspired by the Scrum methodology:
```

> this born from the Scrum methodology:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that is inspired by the Scrum methodology:
```

* What went well?
* What needs improvement?
* Next steps

To learn more about retrospectives, please read:

> https://www.atlassian.com/team-playbook/plays/retrospectives

Reviewer 2: 404

Demo meeting is a monthly event.

* Idea: let everybody know what's going on (on quite a technical level) that is relevant for others or affects others’ releases/deployments.
* Product does not need to be deployed, but the demo should be as real as possible.
* Should be concise, respecting other people's time.
* Fixed max time **per-team: 15min (including questions)**. Agree between teams in advance, if more time needed.

## Retrospective Meeting

This methodology is reviewed every month in a meeting called Retrospective Meeting
which is inspired by the Scrum methodology:

* What went well?
* What needs improvement?
* Next steps

> To learn more about retrospectives, please read:

Reviewer 2: This comment got previously buried, posting again:

> I think we need to clarify a few things:
> * Who attends the engineering retrospective? (CTO, HoA, Team Leads or anyone delegated by Team Leads?)
> * Are there per-team retrospectives too? When? Is it fixed schedule or Team Leads schedule them whenever they consider it?
